The RngVegImprove feature class depicts the area planned and accomplished areas treated as a part of the Range Vegetation Improvement program of work, funded through the budget allocation process and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database within the Natural Resource Manager (NRM) suite of applications. Activities are self-reported by Forest Service Units.
The SilvTSI (Silviculture Timber Stand Improvement) feature class represents activities associated with the following performance measure: Forest Vegetation Improved (Release, Weeding, and Cleaning, Precommercial Thinning, Pruning and Fertilization). The Activities data set portrays the areas where activities are accomplished as a part of the silviculture program of work, funded through the budget allocation process and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database within the Natural Resource Manager (NRM) suite of applications. The activities are part of the Performance Measures used to rate Agency performance in meeting the Department's Strategic Goals. It is important to note that this layer may not contain all accomplished activities; the spatial portion of the activity description is not currently enforced by FACTS and at this time some are optionally reported by Forest Service units. As spatial data reporting is enforced by the application and acceptance of reporting increases for both tabular and spatial we hope to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of the data used for this layer in coming years.
The SilvReforestation feature class represents activities associated with the following performance measure: Forest Vegetation Establishment (Planting, Seeding, Site Preparation for Natural Regeneration and Certification of Natural Regeneration without Site Preparation). The Activities data set portrays the areas where activities are accomplished as a part of the silviculture program of work, funded through the budget allocation process and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database within the Natural Resource Manager (NRM) suite of applications. The activities are part of the Performance Measures used to rate Agency performance in meeting the Department's Strategic Goals. It is important to note that this layer may not contain all accomplished activities; the spatial portion of the activity description is not currently enforced by FACTS and at this time some are optionally reported by Forest Service units. As spatial data reporting is enforced by the application and acceptance of reporting increases for both tabular and spatial we hope to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of the data used for this layer in coming years.
HazFuelTrt_LN (Hazardous Fuel Treatments - Line) represents activities of hazardous fuel treatment reduction. All accomplishments toward the unified hazardous fuels reduction target must meet the following definition: "Vegetative manipulation designed to create and maintain resilient and sustainable landscapes, including burning, mechanical treatments, and/or other methods that reduce the quantity or change the arrangement of living or dead fuel so that the intensity, severity, or effects of wildland fire are reduced within acceptable ecological parameters and consistent with land management plan objectives, or activities that maintain desired fuel conditions. These conditions should be measurable or predictable using fire behavior prediction models or fire effects models." The data came from the Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS), which is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service.
HazFuelTrt_PL (Hazardous Fuel Treatments - Polygon) represents activities of hazardous fuel treatment reduction that are polygons. All accomplishments toward the unified hazardous fuels reduction target must meet the following definition: "Vegetative manipulation designed to create and maintain resilient and sustainable landscapes, including burning, mechanical treatments, and/or other methods that reduce the quantity or change the arrangement of living or dead fuel so that the intensity, severity, or effects of wildland fire are reduced within acceptable ecological parameters and consistent with land management plan objectives, or activities that maintain desired fuel conditions. These conditions should be measurable or predictable using fire behavior prediction models or fire effects models." The data came from the Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS), which is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service.
The TimeberHarvest feature class depicts the area planned and accomplished acres treated as a part of the Timber Harvest program of work, funded through the budget allocation process and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database within the Natural Resource Manager (NRM) suite of applications. Activities are self-reported by Forest Service Units.
Activities meeting the Monarch Butterfly Habitat Restoration initiative are a subset of activities that benefit native plants, and in doing so, benefit pollinators. Activities such as thinning, prescribed fire and other methods of fuel removal, treating invasive species and acres of native plantings can benefit Monarchs. Activities are self-reported by Forest Service Units and are reported when completed. This layer does not contain all activities that benefit Monarchs because this is a relatively new requirement for the program. The quality and comprehensiveness of this data will increase over time.
CFLRP_LN represents Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration (CFLR) Program project activities in polyline vector format. Also included are other High Priority Restoration projects that are funded outside of CFLR. It is important to note that this layer does not contain all of the approved project activities. Instead, these are the accomplishments that project groups uploaded to the Forest Service corporate data holdings in FACTS. As spatial data is a new requirement for the program, improvements to the quality and comprehensiveness of this data is expected in coming years. The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service. The application allows tracking and monitoring of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) decisions as well as the ability to create and manage Knutson-Vandenberg (KV) trust fund plans at the timber sale level. This application complements its companion NRM applications, which cover the spectrum of living and non-living natural resource information.
CFLRP_PL represents Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration (CFLR) Program project activities in the format of a polygon vector. Also included are other High Priority Restoration projects that are funded outside of CFLR. It is important to note that this layer does not contain all of the approved project activities. Instead, these are the accomplishments that project groups uploaded to the Forest Service corporate data holdings in FACTS. As spatial data is a new requirement for the program, improvements to the quality and comprehensiveness of this data is expected in coming years. The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service. The application allows tracking and monitoring of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) decisions as well as the ability to create and manage Knutson-Vandenberg (KV) trust fund plans at the timber sale level. This application complements its companion NRM applications, which cover the spectrum of living and non-living natural resource information.
CFLRP_PL represents Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration (CFLR) Program project activities in the format of a polygon vector. Also included are other High Priority Restoration projects that are funded outside of CFLR. It is important to note that this layer does not contain all of the approved project activities. Instead, these are the accomplishments that project groups uploaded to the Forest Service corporate data holdings in FACTS. As spatial data is a new requirement for the program, improvements to the quality and comprehensiveness of this data is expected in coming years. The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service. The application allows tracking and monitoring of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) decisions as well as the ability to create and manage Knutson-Vandenberg (KV) trust fund plans at the timber sale level. This application complements its companion NRM applications, which cover the spectrum of living and non-living natural resource information.
IRR_LN (Integrated Resource Restoration (IRR): Line) depicts the location of activities funded through the NFRR (National Forest Resource Restoration) Budget Line Item and reported through the FACTS (Forest Service Activity Tracking System) database. The activities fall under number of acres treated annually to sustain or restore watershed function: acres of forestlands treated using timber sales, acres of forestland vegetation improved, acres of forestland vegetation established, acres of rangeland vegetation improved, acres treated for noxious weeds/invasive plants on NFS lands, and acres of hazardous fuels treated outside the wildland/urban interface (WUI) to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildland fire. The activities are self-reported by Forest Service Units.
Activity_IRR_PT (Integrated Resource Restoration (IRR): Line) depicts the location of activities funded through the NFRR (National Budget Line Item and reported through the FACTS (Forest Service Activity Tracking System) database. The activities fall under number of acres treated annually to sustain or restore watershed function: acres of forestlands treated using timber sales, acres of forestland vegetation improved, acres of forestland vegetation established, acres of rangeland vegetation improved, acres treated for noxious weeds/invasive plants on NFS lands, and acres of hazardous fuels treated outside the wildland/urban interface (WUI) to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildland fire. The are self-reported by Forest Service Units.
IRR_PL (Integrated Resource Restoration (IRR): Polygon) depicts the location of activities funded through the NFRR (National Budget Line Item and reported through the FACTS database. The activities fall under number of acres treated annually to sustain or restore watershed function: acres of forestlands treated using timber sales, acres of forestland vegetation improved, acres of forestland vegetation established, acres of rangeland vegetation improved, acres treated for noxious weeds/invasive plants on NFS lands, and acres of hazardous fuels treated outside the wildland/urban interface (WUI) to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildland fire. The are self-reported by Forest Service Units.
StwrdCntrctng_LN (Stewardship Contracting: Line) depicts the linear activities within Stewardship Contracting Project Boundary. Activities are implemented through stewardship contracts or agreements and are self-reported by Forest Service Units through the FACTS (Forest Service Activity Tracking System) database. This feature class is derived from Activity linear features and FACTS Activities tabular data located in the EDW.
StwrdshpCntrctng_PT (Stewardship Contracting: Point) depicts the locations of activities within Stewardship Contracting Project Boundary. Activities are implemented through stewardship contracts or agreements and are self-reported by Forest Service Units through the FACTS Service Activity Tracking System) database. This feature class is derived from Activity point features and FACTS Activities tabular data located in the EDW.
StwrdshpCntrctng_PL (Stewardship Contracting: Polygon) depicts the area of activities within Stewardship Contracting Project Boundary. Activities are implemented through stewardship contracts or agreements and are self-reported by Forest Service Units through the FACTS Service Activity Tracking System) database. This feature class is derived from Activity polygon features and FACTS Activities tabular data located in the EDW.
WBBS_LN depicts the area of activities to implement the Western Bark Beetle Strategy. Activities were self-reported by field units, and center around three main objectives: increasing safety to ensure that people and community infrastructure are protected from the hazards of falling bark beetle-killed trees and elevated wildfire potential, facilitating recovery to re-establish forests damaged by bark beetles, and cultivating resiliency to prevent or mitigate future bark beetle impacts. WBBS ended in FY16 and was not renewed, so it is no longer a requirement to track WBBS accomplishments. It became an optional entry to the National Resource Management (NRM) database beginning in FY2017.
WBBS_PT depicts the location of activities to implement the Western Bark Beetle Strategy. Activities were self-reported by field units, and center around three main objectives: increasing safety to ensure that people and community infrastructure are protected from the hazards of falling bark beetle-killed trees and elevated wildfire potential, facilitating recovery to re-establish forests damaged by bark beetles, and cultivating resiliency to prevent or mitigate future bark beetle impacts. WBBS ended in FY16 and was not renewed, so it is no longer a requirement to track WBBS accomplishments. It became an optional entry to the National Resource Management (NRM) database beginning in FY2017.
WBBS_PL depicts the area of activities to implement the Western Bark Beetle Strategy. Activities were self-reported by field units, and center around three main objectives: increasing safety to ensure that people and community infrastructure are protected from the hazards of falling bark beetle-killed trees and elevated wildfire potential, facilitating recovery to re-establish forests damaged by bark beetles, and cultivating resiliency to prevent or mitigate future bark beetle impacts. WBBS became an optional entry beginning in FY2017. WBBS ended in FY16 and was not renewed, so it is no longer a requirement to track WBBS accomplishments. It became an optional entry to the National Resource Management (NRM) database beginning in FY2017.
The Knutson-Vandenberg Act (K-V) of June 9, 1930 (16 U.S.C. 576-576b; 46 Stat. 527), as amended by the National Forest Management Act of October 22, 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.) authorized collection of deposits from federal timber purchasers for prompt and efficient use of funds to reestablish, protect, and improve the production of renewable resources on timber sale areas. This includes performing soil improvement and watershed restoration, wildlife habitat improvement, control of insects, disease, and noxious weeds, tree planting, seeding and other cultural treatments necessary to maintain and improve land productivity. Since its creation millions of acres of National Forest System lands (NFS) have been treated and restored to resilient conditions and terrestrial and aquatic habitat improved. Public Law 109-54 of August 2, 2005, Title IV - General Provisions, Sec 412 further amended the K-V Act to allow the collection and use of CWKV funds for watershed restoration, wildlife habitat improvement, to prepare timber sales, control of insects, disease, and noxious weeds, fire community protection activities, and the maintenance of forest roads within the Forest Service region in which the timber sale occurred. Provided that such activities may be performed through the use of contracts, forest product sales, and cooperative agreements. Note that these activities are to be performed by contract and not Forest Service personnel. The Forest Service used this amendment to administratively create two K-V programs within the K-V fund; CWKV (Cooperative Work, Knutson-Vandenberg, Sale Area Projects) and CWK2 (Cooperative Work, Knutson-Vandenberg, Regional Projects). This layer shows the spatial representation where activities accomplished and funded with CWKV and CWK2 funds and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database. It is important to note that this layer may not contain all CWKV or CWK2 accomplished activities; the spatial portion of the activity description is not currently enforced by FACTS and at this time some are optionally reported by Forest Service units. As spatial data reporting is enforced by the application and acceptant of reporting both tabular and spatial we hope to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of the data used for this layer in coming years.
The Brush Disposal Program (BD) was established in 1916. It requires all purchasers of National Forest timber to make deposits to the United States for the estimated cost of disposing of brush and other unwanted debris (slash) resulting from its cutting operations on timber sale contracts, stewardship contracts and permits, that are not disposed of by the purchaser. The geospatial representation portrays the footprint area where activities funded through BDBD budget line item (BLI) and PPPP (Purchaser elect) and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database are located in the landscape database. Not all Forest Service units have debris generated requiring BD funds for disposal. Brush disposal activities must be consistent with direction established in forest land and resource management plans, and identified in environmental documents developed in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA). It is important to note that this layer may not contain all brush disposal activities; the spatial portion of the activity description is not currently enforced by FACTS and at this time is optionally reported by Forest Service units. As spatial data is a new requirement for all brush disposal activities, we hope to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of the data used to develop this layer in coming years.
An area encompassing all the National Forest System lands administered by an administrative unit. The area encompasses private lands, other governmental agency lands, and may contain National Forest System lands within the proclaimed boundaries of another administrative unit. All National Forest System lands fall within one and only one Administrative Forest Area.
An area encompassing all the National Forest System lands administered by a Region. The area encompasses private lands, other governmental agency lands. All National Forest System lands fall within one and only one Administrative Region Area.
A depiction of the boundary that encompasses a Ranger District.
The EcoMap Provinces feature class contains ecological province polygons attributed with names and descriptions. The EcomapSections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Potential Natural Vegetation (PNV) Kuchler Sections feature class contains polygons for ecological sections, attributed with Kuchler's PNV type to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and Kuchler's (1975, second edition) map of potential natural vegetation. A list of Kuchler's PNV groups can be accessed at https://www.fs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/fsbdev3_061488.pdf (pg. 22). The EcomapSections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Potential Natural Vegetation (PNV) 2000 feature class contains ecological section polygons attributed with PNV group to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and potential natural vegetation groups developed through coarse-scale mapping for wildland fire and fuel management (USDA-FS, 2002). The EcomapSections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Soil Section feature class contains ecological section polygons attributed with soil characteristics to show relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and soil data from STATSGO, 2005. The EcomapSections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Ecomap Sections feature class contains ecological section polygons attributed with section names and descriptions. The EcomapSections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Climate Sections feature class contains ecological section polygons attributed with climate information to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and various climate data from the PRISM climate mapping system. The EcomapSections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The National Land Cover Sections feature class contains ecological section polygons attributed with land cover types to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and National Landcover mapping (USGS, 1992). The EcomapSections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Fenneman-Johnson Physiographic Sections feature class contains ecological section polygons attributed with physiographic types to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and Fenneman-Johnson physiographic mapping from USGS (1946). The EcomapSections 2007 data set contains polygons for ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Potential Natural Vegetation (PNV) Kuchler Subsections feature class contains polygons for ecological subsections, attributed with Kuchler's PNV type to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and Kuchler's (1975, second edition) map of potential natural vegetation. A list of Kuchler's PNV groups can be accessed at https://www.fs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/fsbdev3_061488.pdf (pg. 22). The EcomapSubsections 2007 data set describes the ecological subsections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Potential Natural Vegetation (PNV) 2000 feature class contains ecological subsection polygons attributed with PNV group to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and potential natural vegetation groups developed through coarse-scale mapping for wildland fire and fuel management (USDA-FS, 2002). The EcomapSubsections 2007 data set describes the ecological subsections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Soil Subsections feature class contains ecological subsection polygons attributed with soil characteristics to show relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and soil data from STATSGO, 2005. The EcomapSubsections 2007 data set describes the ecological sections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Ecomap Subsections feature class contains ecological subsection polygons attributed with subsection names and descriptions. The EcomapSubsections 2007 data set describes the ecological subsections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Climate Subsections feature class contains ecological subsection polygons attributed with climate information to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and various climate data from the PRISM climate mapping system. The EcomapSubections 2007 data set describes the ecological subsections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The National Land Cover Subsections feature class contains ecological subsection polygons attributed with land cover types to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and National Landcover mapping (USGS, 1992). The EcomapSubsections 2007 data set describes the ecological subsections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Fenneman-Johnson Physiographic Subsections feature class contains ecological subsection polygons attributed with physiographic types to show the relationships between ECOMAP 2007 and Fenneman-Johnson physiographic mapping from USGS (1946). The EcomapSubsections 2007 data set contains polygons for ecological subsections within the conterminous United States. It contains regional geographic delineations for analysis of ecological relationships across ecological units. ECOMAP is the term used for a USDA Forest Service initiative to map ecological units and encourage their use in ecosystem-based approaches to forest land conservation and management. This is a collaborative effort with many partners. It is coordinated at the national and regional levels by USDA Forest Service staff and implemented in cooperation with State forestry agencies and others. ECOMAP mapping criteria are outlined in the National Hierarchical Framework of Ecological Units (https://www.ncrs.fs.fed.us/gla/reports/hierarchy.htm). The framework systematically divides the country into progressively smaller areas of land and water that have similar physical and biological characteristics and ecological processes.
The Healthy Forest Restoration Act feature class depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 38 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard. Please note that this data is current as of the last refresh date, and changes to designated areas will be republished and archived on a weekly basis. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, "Latest_Revision_Date" contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
The Healthy Forest Restoration Act feature class depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 37 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard. Please note that HealthyForestRestoration_2015 is an archived version. The most current version of this data is contained in the feature class named simply HealthyForestRestoration. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, "Latest_Revision_Date" contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
The Healthy Forest Restoration Act feature class depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 37 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard. Please note that HealthyForestRestoration_2016 is an archived version. The most current version of this data is contained in the feature class named simply HealthyForestRestoration. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, "Latest_Revision_Date" contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
The Healthy Forest Restoration Act feature class depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 37 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard. Please note that HealthyForestRestoration_2017 is an archived version. The most current version of this data is contained in the feature class named simply HealthyForestRestoration. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, "Latest_Revision_Date" contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
This feature class contains data that depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 37 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard.Please note that this data is current as of May 18, 2018, and changes to designated areas will be republished and archived on weekly basis. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, “Latest_Revision_Date” contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
This feature class contains data that depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 37 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard.Please note that this data is current as of June 19, 2019, and changes to designated areas will be republished and archived on weekly basis. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, “Latest_Revision_Date” contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
This feature class contains data that depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 38 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard.Please note that this data is current as of September 14, 2020, and changes to designated areas will be republished and archived on weekly basis. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, “Latest_Revision_Date” contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
This feature class contains data that depicts National Forest System (NFS) Lands within 38 States designated under section 602 and 603 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act. Designated areas were selected based on a set of eligibility criteria regarding forest health and do not include any areas coinciding with Wilderness and Wilderness Study Areas. The data is comprised of selected HUC-6 units or other areas of similar size and scope clipped to Proclaimed National Forest System lands. Non-Forest Service land ownership areas (inholdings) are also removed. In some cases, entire National Forests were designated. Some state designations' methodologies may differ from the national standard.Please note that this data is current as of February 28, 2021, and changes to designated areas will be republished and archived on weekly basis. Therefore, the most current layer along with previous years' data are available, and the user should ensure that they understand which layer is being accessed. Previous years' data will have a date stamp in the file name, while the most current layer will not. Further, the attribute, “Latest_Revision_Date” contains the date of the most recent designation layer for each state.
Depicts the boundaries for the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration (CFLR). Three of these projects were formerly "High Priority Restoration Projects" (HPRP): Northeastern Washington Vision 2020; Ozark Highlands; and Longleaf Pine Ecosystem Restoration and Hazardous Fuels Reduction. These projects received CFLR appropriated funding starting in FY 2013.
The Current Invasive Plants (InvasivePlantCurrent) feature class contains only the most recent or latest invasive Plant Infestation polygons collected by the National Invasive Plant Inventory Protocol. Includes most recent and excludes historic observations. Includes Site ID, Plant code, status etc. for the infesting species, date, area and other basic data.
An area having regulations and/or restrictions related to existing buildings, structures, or resource activities such as a constructed fuel breaks.
This feature class includes States, Counties or Boroughs, Congressional Districts, Alaska Recording Districts, County Subdivisions, and Places boundaries that are derived from the latest official Census Bureau and Alaska Department of Natural Resources datasets. Features within Forest Service Administrative Forest boundaries may have been modified by the Forest Service for improved accuracy and spatial coincidence(vertical integration).
Polygons representing Forest Service land areas with a regulated use specification authorized by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. These areas generally contain hazardous waste considerations.
The Land Management Planning Unit (LMPU) feature class displays the plan revision status for FS land management planning units, their boundaries, FS Region, planning phase milestone and associated date, and link to a related planning website. A land management plan provides a framework for integrated resource management and for guiding project and activity decision-making on a nationalforest, grassland, prairie, or other administrative unit. New plan development is required for new NFS units; an existing plan may be amended at any time.
A unit designated by the Secretary of Agriculture for conservation and utilization under Title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act.
An area depicting ownership parcels of the subsurface estate, representing mineral rights; it is collected only if the subsurface estate is different than the overlying surface estate.
A boundary within which National Forest System land parcels have managment or use limits placed on them by legal authority. Examples are: National Recreation Area, National Monument, and National Game Refuge.
A boundary of an area designation within which National Forest System land parcels have management or use limits placed on them by legal authority above the Agency level (e.g. Congress and/or President). Areas that have been designated by Congress, Executive Order, Presidential Proclamation, or an Executive branch Department, excluding National Wilderness and National Wild and Scenic Rivers, with related details including the date of designation, status of the final boundary description, authority, and land status case and document information. Each area designation is characterized by a date, boundary status, and authority and may be just one of several designations that comprise a single national designated area.
An NFS Land Unit is nationally significant classification of Federally owned forest, range, and related lands that are administered by the USDA Forest Service or designated for administration through the Forest Service. NFS Land Unit types include proclaimed national forest, purchase unit, national grassland, land utilization project, research and experimental area, national preserve, and other land area. Each NFS Land Unit is identified by a National Forest Fiscal Identifier (NFFID) code, a unique 4-digit number that is used for accounting purposes.
The FS National Forests Dataset (US Forest Service Proclaimed Forests) is a depiction of the boundaries encompassing the National Forest System (NFS) lands within the original proclaimed National Forests, along with subsequent Executive Orders, Proclamations, Public Laws, Public Land Orders, Secretary of Agriculture Orders, and Secretary of Interior Orders creating modifications thereto, along with lands added to the NFS which have taken on the status of 'reserved from the public domain' under the General Exchange Act. The following area types are included: National Forest, Experimental Area, Experimental Forest, Experimental Range, Land Utilization Project, National Grassland, Purchase Unit, and Special Management Area.
This polyline feature class depicts the river corridors of each Wild and Scenic River designated by Congress or the Secretary of the Interior for the United States and Puerto Rico. This GIS data layer was created from a multi-agency effort by the US Forest Service, National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, and the US Fish and Wildlife Service. The spatial data were referenced to the latest High Resolution National Hydrological Data Layer (NHD 1:24,000 Scale or better), published by United States Geological Survey (USGS).
This polyline feature class depicts the classification of each wild and scenic river segment designated by Congress and the Secretary of the Interior for the United States and Puerto Rico. This layer was created by a multi-agency effort including the US Forest Service, National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management and the Fish and Wildlife Service. The spatial data were referenced to the latest High Resolution National Hydrological Data Layer (NHD 1:24,000 Scale or better), published by United States Geological Survey (USGS). "Wild" rivers are free of dams, generally inaccessible except by trail, and represent vestiges of primitive America. "Scenic" rivers are free of dams, with shorelines or watersheds still largely primitive and shorelines largely undeveloped, but accessible in places by roads. ?Recreational? rivers are readily accessible by road or railroad, may have some development along their shorelines, and may have been dammed in the past.
A boundary depicting an area that has been designated as a National Wild, Scenic or Recreational River in the National Wild and Scenic River System.
A boundary depicting an area that has been designated as a National Wilderness in the National Wilderness Preservation System.
A National Grassland unit designated by the Secretary of Agriculture and permanently held by the Department of Agriculture under Title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act.
This layer includes both Proclaimed Forest and National Grassland boundary areas. A Proclaimed Forest boundary is the boundary encompassing National Forest System land within a national forest that is set aside and reserved from the public domain by executive order or proclamation; congressional action is required to terminate a proclaimed boundary; if, at some point in time, no National Forest System land remains within the proclaimed boundary, then there is no legal significance to the proclaimed boundary, however, its legal status remains. National Grasslands are lands designated "National Grasslands" by the Secretary of Agriculture and permanently held by the Department of Agriculture for administration under Title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act.
An area depicting ownership parcels of the subsurface estate, excluding mineral rights; it is collected only if the subsurface estate is different than the overlying surface estate.
An area depicting a right to a surface resource, excluding rights of way.
Federal land parcels that are withdrawn from settlement, sale, location, or entry under some or all of the general land and mineral laws in order to maintain other public values or purposes. A withdrawal area has one or more associated segregations. A segregation is a specific activity from which the area has been withdrawn such as settlement, sale, location, or entry.
A land survey point from a GCDB LX file, survey plat, or captured from a CFF land net coverage. Includes points generated by calculating an aliquot breakdown of a section.
A featureclass depicting survey monuments. A monument is a permanent marker placed at the location of a corner. Today, permanent monuments can be an aluminum pipe and cap or an iron rod and plastic cap. In the past, original PLSS surveys often utilized wooden stakes or posts, marked trees, or stones, mounds of rocks, pits, or other less-permanent monuments to mark corners.
This Quarter Section feature class depicts PLSS Second Divisions . PLSS townships are subdivided in a spatial hierarchy of first, second, and third division. These divisions are typically aliquot parts ranging in size from 640 acres to 160 to 40 acres, and subsequently all the way down to 2.5 acres. The data in this feature class was translated from the PLSSSecondDiv feature class in the original production data model, which defined the second division for a specific parcel of land.
An area defined by the Public Lands Survey System Grid. Normally, 36 sections make up a township.
An area defined by the Public Lands Survey System grid that is referenced by its tier and range numbers, and is normally a rectangle approximately 6 miles on a side with boundaries conforming to meridians and parallels.
A unit designated by the Secretary of Agriculture or previously approved by the National Forest Reservation Commission for purposes of Weeks Law acquisition.
An area depicting a privilege to pass over the land of another in some particular path; usually an easement over the land of another; a strip of land used in this way for railroad and highway purposes, for pipelines or pole lines and for private and public passage.
A boundary within which National Forest System land parcels have management or use limits placed on them by the Forest Service. Examples include: Archaeological Area, Research Natural Area, and Scenic Area.
A land area that has distinct management/use authorities or agreements for Forest Service action. Includes: Cost Share Agreement Areas, Exchange Authority Areas, Land Adjustment Plan Areas, Forest Reserves, and Secretary's Order Areas.
An area depicted as surface ownership parcels dissolved on the same ownership classification.
An area depicting ownership parcels of the surface estate. Each surface ownership parcel is tied to a particular legal transaction. The same individual or organization may currently own many parcels that may or may not have been acquired through the same legal transaction. Therefore, they are captured as separate entities rather than merged together. This is in contrast to Basic Ownership, in which the surface ownership parcels having the same owner are merged together. Basic Ownership provides the general user with the Forest Service versus non-Forest Service view of land ownership within National Forest boundaries. Surface Ownership provides the land status user with a current snapshot of ownership within National Forest boundaries.
Surface Management Agency (SMA) lines represent the surveyed boundary lines for which the Forest Service is responsible for marking and posting. These include the boundaries between NFS lands and non-NFS lands and the boundaries of congressionally designated areas such as National Wilderness.
A depiction of a survey parcel described by a metes and bounds description. Examples include: land lots, housing subdivision lots, mineral surveys, and homestead entry surveys.
A boundary of an area designation that comprises all or a portion of a National Wild, Scenic or Recreational River in the Wild and Scenic River System. Each area designation is characterized by a date, boundary status, and authority and may be just one of several designations that comprise a single National Wild and Scenic River.
A boundary of an area designation that comprises all or a portion of a National Wilderness in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Each area designation is characterized by a date, boundary status, and authority and may be just one of several designations that comprise a single National Wilderness.
An area depicting National Forest System (NFS) ownership parcels of the surface estate.
An area depicting designated National Forest System (NFS) land boundaries, excluding boundaries designated by proclamation.
An area depicting designated National Forest System (NFS) land boundaries which are designated by proclamation.
An area depicting a type of special use authorization (usually granted for linear rights-of-way) that is utilized in those situations where a conveyance of a limited and transferable interest in National Forest System (NFS) land is necessary or desirable to serve or facilitate authorized long-term uses, and that may be compensable according to its terms.
Allotment is a feature class in the Range Management Unit (RMU) data set. It represents the area boundaries of livestock grazing allotments.
Pasture is a feature class in the Range Management Unit (RMU) data set. It represents the area boundaries of pastures within livestock grazing allotments.
WildHorseBurro is a feature class in the Range Management Unit (RMU) data set. It represents area boundaries of wild horse and burro territories.
This dataset contains the recreation opportunity information that the Forest Service collects through the Recreation Portal and shares with the public on http://www.recreation.gov, the Forest Service World Wide Web pages (http://www.fs.fed.us/) and the Interactive Visitor Map. This recreation data contains detailed descriptions of recreational sites, areas, activities & facilities. This published dataset consists of one point feature class for recreational areas, one spatial view and three related tables such as activities, facilities & rec area advisories. The purpose of each related table is described belowRECAREAACTIVITIES: This related table contains information about the activities that are associated with the rec area.RECAREAFACILITIES: This related table contains information about the amenities that are associated with the rec area.RECAREAADVISORIES: This table contains events, news, alerts and warnings that are associated with the rec area.RECAREAACTIVITIES_V: This spatial view/feature class is generated by joining the RECAREAACTIVITIES table to the RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES Feature Class. Please note that the RECAREAID is the unique identifier present in point feature class and in the related tables as well. The RECAREAID is used as foreign key to access relate records.This published data is updated nightly from an XML feed maintained by the CIO Rec Portal team. This data is intended for public use and distribution.
This dataset shows information about the USDA Forest Service constructed recreation sites used to populate the public facing webpages. This information is the descriptive and qualitative information used to set appropriate expectations for visitor use and may not contain all the exact engineering, constructed features.
This dataset contains the recreation site opportunity information that the Forest Service collects through the Recreation Portal and shares with the public on the Forest Service World Wide Web pages www.fs.usda.gov, the Recreation Information Database (RIDB), the Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW), and the Interactive Visitor Map. This recreation database contains descriptions of recreational sites, areas, activities and facilities.
This dataset is the official data for the 2001 Roadless Area Conservation Rule (36 CFR 294, Subpart B). It contains the Inventoried Roadless Areas (IRAs) designated by the 2001 Roadless Area Conservation Rule and used in the associated Final Environmental Impact Statement. The EIS analysis team used this spatial data to assess the impacts of roadless area alternatives on Forest Service policies, use of the National Forests and the surrounding environment. It was used for analysis in combination with national characterization layers, such as ambient human population, forest mortality risk to insects and diseases, current land cover types, and others. All of these datasets include the entire lower 48 states and Alaska, and are coarse resolution. The public also had a need to know where IRAs were located in their area and across the nation. The data was used to create a set of detailed maps published both on the web and in hard copy form, (Volume2, Roadless Area Conservation EIS). NOTE 1: The attribute descriptions are based on forest plan direction prior to adoption of the Roadless Rule. This information is displayed for historical reference. However, the Roadless Rule prohibits road construction in all IRAs, regardless of the attribute descriptions. NOTE 2: Idaho and Colorado have adopted state-specific roadless rules. The Idaho and Colorado Roadless Areas boundaries, represented in separate datasets, supersede the 2001 Roadless Area Boundaries.
The RoadlessArea_2001_ID_CO feature class describes the boundaries of all Roadless Areas managed by the U.S. Forest Service. These roadless areas were designated by administrative rule making to provide management direction for their conservation and management. The RoadlessArea Conservation Rule of 2001 designated roadless areas nationwide. Subsequent rules, the Idaho Roadless Rule of 2008, and the Colorado Roadless Rule of 2012 replaced that direction and designation in the states of Idaho and Colorado. The Roadless Area_2001_ID_CO includes the current roadless area boundaries from all three rules and excludes roadless areas which have been superseded by a subsequent rule.
This feature class describes the boundaries of Roadless Areas designated by the Colorado Roadless Rule of 2012 and managed by the U.S. Forest Service. These roadless areas were designated by administrative rulemaking to provide management direction for conservation of roadless area characteristics while addressing Colorado specific concerns. These roadless area designations supersede the roadless areas designated by the Roadless Area Conservation Rule of 2001 for Colorado. Upper tier areas are a subset of Colorado Roadless Areas which have limited exceptions to provide a high level of protection. The North Fork Coal Mining area is a subset of Colorado Roadless Areas which has an exception for coal mining related activities.
The RoadlessArea_ID_2008 feature class describes the boundaries of Roadless Areas designated by the Idaho Roadless Rule of 2008 and managed by the U.S. Forest Service. The final rule reflects the views and concerns of thousands of people who expressed interest during the rule-making process, which ran from October 2006 to October 2008. The public comment period generated 38,000 comments. The Idaho Roadless Rule takes a balanced approach, recognizing both local and national interests. Five management themes have been established (and are identified in the MgmtClassification attribute) that provide prohibitions, with exceptions or conditioned permissions, governing timber cutting, removing and selling, road construction and reconstruction, and certain mineral activities. These management themes are: Wild Land Recreation, Special Areas of Historic or Tribal Significance, Primitive, Backcountry Restoration, and General Forest, Rangeland, and Grassland. Each theme provides management direction that varies from most restrictive to least restrictive and provides roadless character that varies from higher quality to lower quality. Forest Plan Special Areas are also identified, where management of the area is according to Forest Plan direction, not the Idaho Roadless Rule. These special areas include items such as wild and scenic river corridors, research natural areas, etc. This dataset is a compilation of the most up to date Roadless areas from the National Forests in Idaho. This dataset was compiled by taking the roadless area boundaries from each of the National Forests in Idaho and adding the management area prescription boundaries from each forest. For some forests both the existing forest plan management prescription layer and a "proposed" prescriptions boundaries were used. See the list of these Forests in the metadata for the each forest. Date of last update Date of last update is captured in the Lineage section.
The feature class indicates the specific types of motorized vehicles allowed on the designated routes and their seasons of use. The feature class is designed to be consistent with the Motor Vehicle Use Map (MVUM). Only roads with a SYMBOL attribute value of 1, 2, 3, 4, 11, and 12 are Forest Service System roads and contain data concerning their availability for OHV (Off Highway Vehicle) use. This data is published and refreshed on a unit by unit basis as needed. Information for each individual unit must be verified as to be consistent with the published MVUMs prior to inclusion in this data. Not every National Forest has data included in this feature class.
This feature class depicts Forest Service trails where motorized use is allowed. It contains information on the specific type of motor vehicle and their seasons of use. The feature class is consistent with the appropriate National Forest's Motor Vehicle Use Map (MVUM). Non-motorized trails are not included in this data. Trails in this feature class are legal for some motorized use for at least a portion of the year. Any reference to Open or Dates Open refers strictly to when it is legal to use that motor vehicle on the trail. It is not meant to describe when the conditions would be appropriate for that use. As an example, a trail may be designated open to motorcycles all year long but there may be periods of time when snow depth prevents the use of motorcycles on that trail. It is compiled from the GIS Data Dictionary data and tabular data that the administrative units have prepared for the creation of their MVUMs. This data is published and refreshed on a unit by unit basis as needed. Individual unit's data must be verified and proved consistent with the published MVUMs prior to publication in the Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW).
Existing Forest Service roads with attributes representing their characteristics. Each feature represents a segment of road where the attributes are the same. Attributes apply either to the entire road or to some measured distance along the road.
The TrailNFS_Publish Layer is designed to provide information about National Forest System trail locations and characteristics to the public. When fully realized, it will describe trail locations, basic characteristics of the trail, and where and when various trail uses are prohibited, allowed and encouraged. Because the data readiness varies between Forests, each Forest will approve which level of attribute subset are published for that forest. Forests can provide no information or one of three attribute subsets describing trails. The attribute subsets include TrailNFS_Centerline which includes the location and trail name and number; TrailNFS_Basic which adds information about basic trail characteristics; and TrailNFS_Mgmt which adds information about where and when users are prohibited, allowed, and encouraged. When a Forest chooses to provide the highest attribute subset, TrailNFS_Mgmt, these attributes must be consistent with the Forest's published Motorized Vehicle Use Map (MVUM).
Active Periodical Cicada Broods of the United States. The periodical cicada emerges in massive groups once every 13 or 17 years and is completely unique to North America. There are 15 of these mass groups, called broods, of periodical cicadas in the United States. This county-based data, complied by USFS Northern Research Station entomologist Andrew Liebhold, depict where and when the different broods of periodical cicadas are likely to emerge in the US through 2030. The data was compiled for the publication by Koenig, et. al. (2011) using data from the following historic periodical cicada publications: Marlatt, C. L. 1907. The periodical cicada. Bulletin of the USDA Bureau of Entomology 71:1-181. Simon, C. 1988. Evolution of 13- and 17-year periodical cicadas (Homoptera: Cicadidae). Bulletin of the Entomological Society of America 34:163-176.
This layer contains features of aerial fire retardant avoidance areas delivered as part of the 2011 Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land Environmental Impact Statement. This Feature Class shows areas, provided by each National Forest who used aerial fire retardant from 2000-2010, where the aerial application of fire retardant should be avoided in order to prevent the potential of impacts to Federally listed threatened or endangered species as identified through consultation, or Forest Service sensitive species. Data includes location of terrestrial areas where the application of aerial fire retardant is to be avoided. This data is to be used in planning and implementation phases of U.S. Forest Service fire activities to help prevent misapplication of aerial fire retardant in known areas of TEPCS (Threatened, Endangered, Proposed, Candidate, Sensitive) species throughout National Forest lands. Provided here is a National merged dataset derived from each National Forest contribution. This data has been merged, dissolved, and erased of attributes contained in each original component dataset. For this purpose, specific attributes are not necessary, as any spatial areas depicted simply show areas where aerial fire retardant use is to be avoided as stated in U.S. Forest Service guidelines.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
Aerial retardant avoidance area for hydrographic feature data are based on high resolution National Hydrographic Dataset (NHD) produced by USGS and available from the USFS. Forests and/or regions have had the opportunity to modify the default NHD water representation (300ft buffer from all water features) for their areas of interest to accurately represent aerial fire retardant avoidance areas as described in the 2011 Record of Decision for the Nationwide Aerial Application of Fire Retardant on National Forest System Land EIS. These changes have been integrated into this dataset depicting aerial fire retardant avoidance areas for hydrographic features. Note that this data is current for 2023.
This dataset provides USFS watershed improvement activities to barriers to upstream migration. This includes improving existing passage structures or removing them entirely. Structures include culverts, dams, diversion dams. Also included are where structures have been added to purposely create barriers to protect native populations from invasive species. Data include the planned fiscal year and planned cost, the completed fiscal year, approximate completed cost, and partners involved. Each AOP activity is displayed as a single point.
This dataset displays miles of habitat improved upstream from an Aquatic Organism Passage (AOP) structure that was improved by an on the ground activity. Data includes the completed fiscal year and lists species that benefit from the habitat improvement. The miles of habitat improved are displayed as a line or multi-line. Data are from USFS Natural Resource Manager Watershed Improvement Tracking (WIT) database.
This dataset provides USFS Aquatic Organism Passage (AOP) survey data. It shows stream passage locations, passage measurements, and passability assessment categories from AOP field surveys. Structure included: culverts, dams, diversion dams, and natural features such as waterfalls.
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (a.k.a Infrastructure Investment Jobs Act) and the Inflation Reduction Act include significant funding to execute fuels mitigation projects. Regions submitted proposed project boundaries designed to address community exposure to wildfire. The Executive Leadership Team of the Forest Service selected "Landscapes" for investment in fiscal years 2022 and 2023. Additional landscapes may be selected for future action. This dataset documents the official boundary of the landscapes selected for fuels treatment activities in the Wildfire Crisis Strategy. The public-facing version of these boundaries is called Wildfire Crisis Strategy Landscapes.
This polygon layer consists of boundaries for the ecological tile units and CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with Landsat of Visible Ecological Groupings) zone units currently being used to tile the EVEG (existing vegetation) dataset. Selected lines were added from the CalWater watershed layer where finer tile divisions were needed. Additionally, attributes from Ecological Units of California (Ecological Domain, Division, Province, Section and Subsection) have been incorporated into this layer. (see Procedures and Citation sections).
This feature class represents the historic (1980) scenario for bull trout, derived from the Climate Shield fish distribution models. These models provide stream-specific probabilistic predictions about the occurrence of juvenile bull trout and cutthroat trout in association with three different scenarios for climate change and brook trout invasions. These datasets indicate all potential cold-water habitats 500 cold-water streams. The stream centerlines were based on the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) but were modified for purposes of modeling and cross-walking to other datasets.
This feature class represents the future (2040) scenario for bull trout, derived from the Climate Shield fish distribution models. These models provide stream-specific probabilistic predictions about the occurrence of juvenile bull trout and cutthroat trout in association with three different scenarios for climate change and brook trout invasions. These datasets indicate all potential cold-water habitats 500 cold-water streams. The stream centerlines were based on the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) but were modified for purposes of modeling and cross-walking to other datasets.
This feature class represents the future (2080) scenario for bull trout, derived from the Climate Shield fish distribution models. These models provide stream-specific probabilistic predictions about the occurrence of juvenile bull trout and cutthroat trout in association with three different scenarios for climate change and brook trout invasions. These datasets indicate all potential cold-water habitats 500 cold-water streams. The stream centerlines were based on the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) but were modified for purposes of modeling and cross-walking to other datasets.
This feature class represents the historic (1980) scenario for cutthroat trout, derived from the Climate Shield fish distribution models. These models provide stream-specific probabilistic predictions about the occurrence of juvenile bull trout and cutthroat trout in association with three different scenarios for climate change and brook trout invasions. These datasets indicate all potential cold-water habitats 500 cold-water streams. The stream centerlines were based on the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) but were modified for purposes of modeling and cross-walking to other datasets.
This feature class represents the future (2040) scenario for cutthroat trout, derived from the Climate Shield fish distribution models. These models provide stream-specific probabilistic predictions about the occurrence of juvenile bull trout and cutthroat trout in association with three different scenarios for climate change and brook trout invasions. These datasets indicate all potential cold-water habitats 500 cold-water streams. The stream centerlines were based on the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) but were modified for purposes of modeling and cross-walking to other datasets.
This feature class represents the future (2080) scenario for cutthroat trout, derived from the Climate Shield fish distribution models. These models provide stream-specific probabilistic predictions about the occurrence of juvenile bull trout and cutthroat trout in association with three different scenarios for climate change and brook trout invasions. These datasets indicate all potential cold-water habitats 500 cold-water streams. The stream centerlines were based on the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) but were modified for purposes of modeling and cross-walking to other datasets.
This data is intended for read-only use. The purpose of the data is to provide display, identification, and analysis tools for determining locations of designated communications sites located on National Forest System lands, for Forest Service managers and other interested parties.
The purpose of this dataset is to display the extent of existing Terrestrial Ecological Unit inventory (TEUI) data internally to facilitate inter-agency collaboration. The feature class for this dataset will display polygons of the ecological unit plots, acreages, and percent coverages of National Forest and Grassland administrative boundaries using their common names, with a percent coverage for Land Type and acres of forest per plot.
This Existing Vegetation (EVeg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000. The geographic extent entails the northeastern portion of CALVEG Zone 6, Central Coast. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1998 to 2015. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (EVeg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000 for CALVEG Zone 5, Central Valley. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1998 to 2015. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000 for CALVEG Zone 9, the Great Basin. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1999 to 2009. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000. The geographic extent entails the northeastern portion of CALVEG Zone 1 (North Coast), Ecoregion Section M261A. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1998 to 2015. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database. USGS Land Use / Land Cover Anderson 1 classification system is included in the database to meet national standard requirements. Mapping standards meet requirements of the USDA Forest Service as defined by the FS GIS data dictionary, FGDC Vegetation standards and the FS Existing Vegetation Classification and Mapping Technical Guide. Regional add-ons are retained for crosswalking to the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000. The geographic extent entails the middle portion of CALVEG Zone 1 (North Coast), Ecoregion Section M261B. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1998 to 2015. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000. The geographic extent entails the western portion of CALVEG Zone 1 (North Coast), Ecoregion Section 263A. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1998 to 2015. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000. The geographic extent entails CALVEG Zone 2, North Interior. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1999 to 2016. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000. The geographic extent entails CALVEG Zone3, the North Sierra. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 2000 - 2014. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000 for CALVEG Zone 7, the South Coast. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 2002 to 2010. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000 for CALVEG Zone 8, the South Interior. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 2000 to 2008. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This Existing Vegetation (Eveg) polygon feature class is a CALVEG (Classification and Assessment with LANDSAT of Visible Ecological Groupings) map product from a scale of 1:24,000 to 1:100,000 for CALVEG Zone 4, the South Sierra. Source imagery for this layer ranges from the year 1995 - 2016. The CALVEG classification system was used for vegetation typing and crosswalked to other classification systems in this database including the California Wildlife Habitat Relationship System (CWHR).
This polygon feature class contains the boundaries of 86 of 87 experimental forests, ranges and watersheds, including cooperating experimental areas.
This point feature class contains the locations of all 87 experimental forests, ranges and watersheds, including cooperating experimental areas.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
The Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS) is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. This feature class contains the FACTS attributes most commonly needed to describe FACTS activities.
This feature class represents forest area estimates (and percent sampling error) by county for the year 2015. The data was generated from the Forest Inventory Analysis (FIA) using the EVALIDator web tool (http://apps.fs.fed.us/Evalidator/evalidator.jsp). The areas were calculated within county limits using the US Census Bureau's county spatial data (https://www.census.gov/geo/maps-data/data/cbf/cbf_counties.html). Features and attributes of the county layer were adapted to match attributes within the FIA database (FIADB) and features have been generalized by removing vertices to enhance performance. Future iterations of this dataset will be produced using refined methods and higher resolution spatial data.
This feature class represents forest area estimates (and percent sampling error) by county for the year 2016. The data was generated from the Forest Inventory Analysis (FIA) using the EVALIDator web tool (http://apps.fs.fed.us/Evalidator/evalidator.jsp). The areas were calculated within county limits using the US Census Bureau's county spatial data (https://www.census.gov/geo/maps-data/data/cbf/cbf_counties.html). Features and attributes of the county layer were adapted to match attributes within the FIA database (FIADB) and features have been generalized by removing vertices to enhance performance. Future iterations of this dataset will be produced using refined methods and higher resolution spatial data.
This feature class represents forest area estimates (and percent sampling error) by county for the year 2017. The data was generated from the Forest Inventory Analysis (FIA) using the EVALIDator web tool (http://apps.fs.fed.us/Evalidator/evalidator.jsp). The areas were calculated within county limits using the US Census Bureau's county spatial data (https://www.census.gov/geo/maps-data/data/cbf/cbf_counties.html). Features and attributes of the county layer were adapted to match attributes within the FIA database (FIADB) and features have been generalized by removing vertices to enhance performance. Future iterations of this dataset will be produced using refined methods and higher resolution spatial data.
The FIRESTAT (Fire Statistics System) Fire Occurrence point layer represents ignition points, or points of origin, from which individual wildland fires started on National Forest System lands. The source is the FIRESTAT database, which contains records of fire occurrence, related fire behavior conditions, and the suppression actions taken by management taken from the Individual Wildland Fire Report. This publicly available dataset is updated annually for all years previous to January 1 on or after February 16th.
FSNRC boundaries attributed with NRCS Regions
The Fireshed Registry is a geospatial dashboard and decision tool built to organize information about wildfire transmission to communities and monitor progress towards risk reduction for communities from management investments. The concept behind the Fireshed Registry is to identify and map the source of risk rather than what is at risk across all lands in the conterminous United States. While the Fireshed Registry was organized around mapping the source of fire risk to communities, the framework does not preclude the assessment of other resource management priorities and trends such as water, fish and aquatic or wildlife habitat, or recreation. The Fireshed Registry is also a multi-scale decision tool for quantifying, prioritizing, and geospatially displaying wildfire transmission to buildings in adjacent or nearby communities. Fireshed areas in the Fireshed Registry are approximately 250,000 acre accounting units that are delineated based on a smoothed building exposure map of the conterminous United States. These boundaries were created by dividing up the landscape into regular-sized units that represent similar source levels of community exposure to wildfire risk. Project areas are approximately 25,000 acre accounting units nested within firesheds. This data publication includes a geodatabase that contains for both fireshed and project areas: boundaries, size, total annual number of buildings inside and outside of the area exposed by wildfires ignited within the area (based on 2010 housing unit data and 2014 fuels conditions), and percent of the area that has been disturbed since 2014 (2015-2018).
The Fireshed Registry is a geospatial dashboard and decision tool built to organize information about wildfire transmission to communities and monitor progress towards risk reduction for communities from management investments. The concept behind the Fireshed Registry is to identify and map the source of risk rather than what is at risk across all lands in the conterminous United States. While the Fireshed Registry was organized around mapping the source of fire risk to communities, the framework does not preclude the assessment of other resource management priorities and trends such as water, fish and aquatic or wildlife habitat, or recreation. The Fireshed Registry is also a multi-scale decision tool for quantifying, prioritizing, and geospatially displaying wildfire transmission to buildings in adjacent or nearby communities. Fireshed areas in the Fireshed Registry are approximately 250,000 acre accounting units that are delineated based on a smoothed building exposure map of the conterminous United States. These boundaries were created by dividing up the landscape into regular-sized units that represent similar source levels of community exposure to wildfire risk. Project areas are approximately 25,000 acre accounting units nested within firesheds. This data publication includes a geodatabase that contains for both fireshed and project areas: boundaries, size, total annual number of buildings inside and outside of the area exposed by wildfires ignited within the area (based on 2010 housing unit data and 2014 fuels conditions), and percent of the area that has been disturbed since 2014 (2015-2018).
Basic Description: The FSCommonNames dataset contains the common names of the national forests and grasslands and their respective FS WWW URL information that is used for both display of the national forest and national grassland boundaries on any map product and for dynamic interactivity of the map. This published dataset consists of one polygon feature class. There is also a generalized version of this dataset called FSCommonNames_Gen. Detailed Description: This dataset exhibits the following characteristics: 1. Granularity of the polygon features: The spatial extent of the national forests and the grasslands match the way the agency would like to communicate with the public. 2. Preferred /Common Name of the National Forest Units: The common names of the national forest and grassland match the preferred name column that is present in the common names decision table maintained by the Office of Communication. 3. Hyperlinks to FS WWW Home page: This column contains the national forest and their respective FS WWW URL information. This URL could be used on any interactive map applications to link users directly to a forests home page.
Features in this dataset reprsent individual USFS Ranger Districts or USFS Administrative Forests Boundaries which compose a stumpage market. The schema of this dataset is a copy of S_USA.RangerDistrict (https://data.fs.usda.gov/geodata/edw/edw_resources/meta/S_USA.RangerDistrict.xml) with two additional fields:APPRAISALZONES_FK supports a one-to-many relationship between S_USA.Com_TimberAppraisalZone and S_USA.Com_TimberAppraisalZone_RDsCOMMENTS contains information about individual stumpage market.
This dataset is a spatial display of US Forest Service stumpage market appraisal zones. A zone may encompass a Region, a National Forest, a group of Ranger Districts, or combinations thereof. Each unique market appraisal zone defines a localized stumpage market. In each market area, stumpage values reflect the market value of standing trees (on the stump) prior to felling, removal, and utilization in a value-added manufacturing activity. The zone boundary is typically determined by factors including, but not limited to, manufacturing facilities, hauling distances, species yield compositions, timber quality, market area competition, and logging methods.
This data is intended for read-only use. Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) data from surface ownership fund table is attached to surface ownership to create a base layer that is used in Forest Service business functions, as well as by other entities such as states, counties, other agencies, and partners. This layer depicts only the Forest Service lands that are acquired through purchase, exchange, donation, and transfer that used LWCF-designated funds. It is not a complete representation of all Forest Service land acquisitions; only those that used LWCF-designated funds.
This data includes offices where Forest Service employees work or where IT equipment is housed. There is no Personally Identifiable Information (PII) data in this dataset, nor telework locations. It includes owned, leased and shared offices. Shared offices are buildings owned or leased by another entity (i.e. a university, other federal agency, etc.) but one or more Forest Service employee(s) work at the building or IT equipment is housed at the building.
This feature class contains water runoff metrics from Forest Service lands. Note: 'Forest Service Lands' are here defined as those lands within the Forest Service administrative boundaries; these include some inholdings and other non-USFS lands enclosed within these boundaries. This feature class was generated from the original study "Modeled historical streamflow metrics for the contiguous United States and National Forest Lands" (Luce, et. al., 2017) and the 2012 snapshot of the stream layer from the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD). More information pertaining to the original streamflow dataset is available on the Research Data Archive: https://www.fs.usda.gov/rds/archive/Product/RDS-2017-0046.
This dataset contains the detailed information about the individual asset linear features such as roads and trails that make up Great American Outdoors Act (GAOA) projects. This data can be used together with the project summary data to display general project locations. The data is refreshed on a nightly basis from the US Forest Service database of infrastructure projects which is stewarded by the individual National Forests and Grasslands.For more information about Forest Service GAOA projects visit our website: https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/gaoa
This dataset contains the detailed information about the individual asset point features such as recreation sites, that make up Great American Outdoors Act (GAOA) projects. This data can be used together with the project summary data to display general project and asset locations. The data is refreshed on a nightly basis from the US Forest Service database of infrastructure projects which is stewarded by the individual National Forests and Grasslands. For more information about Forest Service GAOA projects visit our website: https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/gaoa
These data describe the approximate project location and financial elements of US Forest Service, Great American Outdoors Act (GAOA) projects that are implemented through a Grant and/or Agreement. Data is visible at all scales and zoom levels.
This dataset displays the approximate location of US Forest Service, Great American Outdoors Act (GAOA) projects. The data is refreshed on a nightly basis from the US Forest Service database of infrastructure projects which is stewarded by the individual National Forests and Grasslands.This dataset is a spatial data layer of points representing the approximate or general location where the project takes place. The point location is intended for use in small scale maps to indicate the general location of the projects across the country. The location data is maintained by staff on the individual National Forest or Grassland using the database of record. Because a project can be made up of many assets distributed across a land area, a single project location point will not always reflect the specific location and extent of the work in the project. The project detail data can be used to display the individual assets that make up the project. For more information about Forest Service GAOA projects visit our website: https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/gaoa
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
Multiple research and management partners collaboratively developed a multiscale approach for assessing the geomorphic sensitivity of streams and ecological resilience of riparian and meadow ecosystems in upland watersheds of the Great Basin to disturbances and management actions. The approach builds on long-term work by the partners on the responses of these systems to disturbances and management actions. At the core of the assessments is information on past and present watershed and stream channel characteristics, geomorphic and hydrologic processes, and riparian and meadow vegetation. In this report, we describe the approach used to delineate Great Basin mountain ranges and the watersheds within them, and the data that are available for the individual watersheds. We also describe the resulting database and the data sources. Furthermore, we summarize information on the characteristics of the regions and watersheds within the regions and the implications of the assessments for geomorphic sensitivity and ecological resilience. The target audience for this multiscale approach is managers and stakeholders interested in assessing and adaptively managing Great Basin stream systems and riparian and meadow ecosystems. Anyone interested in delineating the mountain ranges and watersheds within the Great Basin or quantifying the characteristics of the watersheds will be interested in this report. For more information, visit: https://www.fs.usda.gov/research/treesearch/61573
This dataset includes polygons with a minimum of 40 acres of woodlands per square mile as depicted in William H. Brewer’s 1873 map of woodland density and covers the conterminous United States. Each polygon has been labeled with the density category (1-5) depicted on the original map. This dataset was created by georeferencing a scanned version of the source map and by heads-up digitizing each woodland density polygon.
This file represents modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the absolute change between the historical (1977-2006) and projected future end-of-century time period (2070–2099), based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. The flow regime is of fundamental importance in determining the physical and ecological characteristics of a river or stream, but actual flow measurements are only available for a small minority of stream segments, mostly on large rivers. Flows for all other streams must be extrapolated or modeled. Modeling is also necessary to estimate flow regimes under future climate conditions. We modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical period (1977–2006), and two projected future time periods, mid-century (2030–2059), and end-of-century (2070–2099). These are based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. These use RCP 8.5 projections of temperature and precipitation, downscaled to a 1/8 degree (~12 km) cell size, which are used as inputs to the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) macroscale hydrologic model. This dataset updates the previous Western U.S. Stream Flow Metric Dataset (Wenger et al., 2010) (a link to the old datasets is available on the project website: https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/modeled_stream_flow_metrics.shtml). It expands the spatial extent of this analysis, uses updated climate scenarios, and includes additional climate metrics. For each stream segment in the National Hydrography Dataset Plus Version 2 (NHDPlusV2) in the contiguous U.S. we calculated hydrographs for the three time periods. From these we calculated summary flow metrics to describe flow regimes for each stream segment and each time period and joined these to the NHD stream segments for visualization and analysis. These results allow scientists and managers to easily compare historical and projected flow patterns, including monthly, seasonal, and annual flow, flood and drought events, and timing of peak and low flows. Note: We recommend that line segments with an upstream area greater than 10,000 km2 be removed from the dataset for consideration of high flow metrics (using the field 'TotDASqKM'), since the downstream routing was simply an accumulation function. This is reasonable for larger watersheds at time scales of months and greater, but would be inaccurate for estimating floods at daily time scales on larger watersheds. Note also that the 10+ year flood models are not appropriate for use in engineering and design applications. Streams without flow metrics (null values) were removed from this dataset to improve display speed; to see all stream lines, use an NHD flowline dataset.
This file represents modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the absolute change between the historical (1977-2006) and projected future mid-century time period (2030–2059), based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. The flow regime is of fundamental importance in determining the physical and ecological characteristics of a river or stream, but actual flow measurements are only available for a small minority of stream segments, mostly on large rivers. Flows for all other streams must be extrapolated or modeled. Modeling is also necessary to estimate flow regimes under future climate conditions. We modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical period (1977–2006), and two projected future time periods, mid-century (2030–2059), and end-of-century (2070–2099). These are based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. These use RCP 8.5 projections of temperature and precipitation, downscaled to a 1/8 degree (~12 km) cell size, which are used as inputs to the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) macroscale hydrologic model. This dataset updates the previous Western U.S. Stream Flow Metric Dataset (Wenger et al., 2010) (a link to the old datasets is available on the project website: https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/modeled_stream_flow_metrics.shtml). It expands the spatial extent of this analysis, uses updated climate scenarios, and includes additional climate metrics. For each stream segment in the National Hydrography Dataset Plus Version 2 (NHDPlusV2) in the contiguous U.S. we calculated hydrographs for the three time periods. From these we calculated summary flow metrics to describe flow regimes for each stream segment and each time period and joined these to the NHD stream segments for visualization and analysis. These results allow scientists and managers to easily compare historical and projected flow patterns, including monthly, seasonal, and annual flow, flood and drought events, and timing of peak and low flows. Note: We recommend that line segments with an upstream area greater than 10,000 km2 be removed from the dataset for consideration of high flow metrics (using the field 'TotDASqKM'), since the downstream routing was simply an accumulation function. This is reasonable for larger watersheds at time scales of months and greater, but would be inaccurate for estimating floods at daily time scales on larger watersheds. Note also that the 10+ year flood models are not appropriate for use in engineering and design applications. Streams without flow metrics (null values) were removed from this dataset to improve display speed; to see all stream lines, use an NHD flowline dataset.
This file represents modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the projected future end-of-century time period (2070–2099), based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. The flow regime is of fundamental importance in determining the physical and ecological characteristics of a river or stream, but actual flow measurements are only available for a small minority of stream segments, mostly on large rivers. Flows for all other streams must be extrapolated or modeled. Modeling is also necessary to estimate flow regimes under future climate conditions. We modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical period (1977–2006), and two projected future time periods, mid-century (2030–2059), and end-of-century (2070–2099). These are based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. These use RCP 8.5 projections of temperature and precipitation, downscaled to a 1/8 degree (~12 km) cell size, which are used as inputs to the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) macroscale hydrologic model. This dataset updates the previous Western U.S. Stream Flow Metric Dataset (Wenger et al., 2010) (a link to the old datasets is available on the project website: https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/modeled_stream_flow_metrics.shtml). It expands the spatial extent of this analysis, uses updated climate scenarios, and includes additional climate metrics. For each stream segment in the National Hydrography Dataset Plus Version 2 (NHDPlusV2) in the contiguous U.S. we calculated hydrographs for the three time periods. From these we calculated summary flow metrics to describe flow regimes for each stream segment and each time period and joined these to the NHD stream segments for visualization and analysis. These results allow scientists and managers to easily compare historical and projected flow patterns, including monthly, seasonal, and annual flow, flood and drought events, and timing of peak and low flows. Note: We recommend that line segments with an upstream area greater than 10,000 km2 be removed from the dataset for consideration of high flow metrics (using the field 'TotDASqKM'), since the downstream routing was simply an accumulation function. This is reasonable for larger watersheds at time scales of months and greater, but would be inaccurate for estimating floods at daily time scales on larger watersheds. Note also that the 10+ year flood models are not appropriate for use in engineering and design applications. Streams without flow metrics (null values) were removed from this dataset to improve display speed; to see all stream lines, use an NHD flowline dataset.
This file represents modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical time period (1977-2006), based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. The flow regime is of fundamental importance in determining the physical and ecological characteristics of a river or stream, but actual flow measurements are only available for a small minority of stream segments, mostly on large rivers. Flows for all other streams must be extrapolated or modeled. Modeling is also necessary to estimate flow regimes under future climate conditions. We modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical period (1977–2006), and two projected future time periods, mid-century (2030–2059), and end-of-century (2070–2099). These are based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. These use RCP 8.5 projections of temperature and precipitation, downscaled to a 1/8 degree (~12 km) cell size, which are used as inputs to the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) macroscale hydrologic model. This dataset updates the previous Western U.S. Stream Flow Metric Dataset (Wenger et al., 2010) (a link to the old datasets is available on the project website: https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/modeled_stream_flow_metrics.shtml). It expands the spatial extent of this analysis, uses updated climate scenarios, and includes additional climate metrics. For each stream segment in the National Hydrography Dataset Plus Version 2 (NHDPlusV2) in the contiguous U.S. we calculated hydrographs for the three time periods. From these we calculated summary flow metrics to describe flow regimes for each stream segment and each time period and joined these to the NHD stream segments for visualization and analysis. These results allow scientists and managers to easily compare historical and projected flow patterns, including monthly, seasonal, and annual flow, flood and drought events, and timing of peak and low flows. Note: We recommend that line segments with an upstream area greater than 10,000 km2 be removed from the dataset for consideration of high flow metrics (using the field 'TotDASqKM'), since the downstream routing was simply an accumulation function. This is reasonable for larger watersheds at time scales of months and greater, but would be inaccurate for estimating floods at daily time scales on larger watersheds. Note also that the 10+ year flood models are not appropriate for use in engineering and design applications. Streams without flow metrics (null values) were removed from this dataset to improve display speed; to see all stream lines, use an NHD flowline dataset.
This file represents modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the projected future mid-century time period (2030–2059), based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. The flow regime is of fundamental importance in determining the physical and ecological characteristics of a river or stream, but actual flow measurements are only available for a small minority of stream segments, mostly on large rivers. Flows for all other streams must be extrapolated or modeled. Modeling is also necessary to estimate flow regimes under future climate conditions. We modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical period (1977–2006), and two projected future time periods, mid-century (2030–2059), and end-of-century (2070–2099). These are based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. These use RCP 8.5 projections of temperature and precipitation, downscaled to a 1/8 degree (~12 km) cell size, which are used as inputs to the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) macroscale hydrologic model. This dataset updates the previous Western U.S. Stream Flow Metric Dataset (Wenger et al., 2010) (a link to the old datasets is available on the project website: https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/modeled_stream_flow_metrics.shtml). It expands the spatial extent of this analysis, uses updated climate scenarios, and includes additional climate metrics. For each stream segment in the National Hydrography Dataset Plus Version 2 (NHDPlusV2) in the contiguous U.S. we calculated hydrographs for the three time periods. From these we calculated summary flow metrics to describe flow regimes for each stream segment and each time period and joined these to the NHD stream segments for visualization and analysis. These results allow scientists and managers to easily compare historical and projected flow patterns, including monthly, seasonal, and annual flow, flood and drought events, and timing of peak and low flows. Note: We recommend that line segments with an upstream area greater than 10,000 km2 be removed from the dataset for consideration of high flow metrics (using the field 'TotDASqKM'), since the downstream routing was simply an accumulation function. This is reasonable for larger watersheds at time scales of months and greater, but would be inaccurate for estimating floods at daily time scales on larger watersheds. Note also that the 10+ year flood models are not appropriate for use in engineering and design applications. Streams without flow metrics (null values) were removed from this dataset to improve display speed; to see all stream lines, use an NHD flowline dataset.
This file represents modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the percent change between the historical (1977-2006) and projected future end-of-century time period (2070–2099), based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff.The flow regime is of fundamental importance in determining the physical and ecological characteristics of a river or stream, but actual flow measurements are only available for a small minority of stream segments, mostly on large rivers. Flows for all other streams must be extrapolated or modeled. Modeling is also necessary to estimate flow regimes under future climate conditions. We modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical period (1977–2006), and two projected future time periods, mid-century (2030–2059), and end-of-century (2070–2099). These are based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. These use RCP 8.5 projections of temperature and precipitation, downscaled to a 1/8 degree (~12 km) cell size, which are used as inputs to the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) macroscale hydrologic model. This dataset updates the previous Western U.S. Stream Flow Metric Dataset (Wenger et al., 2010) (a link to the old datasets is available on the project website: https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/modeled_stream_flow_metrics.shtml). It expands the spatial extent of this analysis, uses updated climate scenarios, and includes additional climate metrics. For each stream segment in the National Hydrography Dataset Plus Version 2 (NHDPlusV2) in the contiguous U.S. we calculated hydrographs for the three time periods. From these we calculated summary flow metrics to describe flow regimes for each stream segment and each time period and joined these to the NHD stream segments for visualization and analysis. These results allow scientists and managers to easily compare historical and projected flow patterns, including monthly, seasonal, and annual flow, flood and drought events, and timing of peak and low flows. Note: We recommend that line segments with an upstream area greater than 10,000 km2 be removed from the dataset for consideration of high flow metrics (using the field 'TotDASqKM'), since the downstream routing was simply an accumulation function. This is reasonable for larger watersheds at time scales of months and greater, but would be inaccurate for estimating floods at daily time scales on larger watersheds. Note also that the 10+ year flood models are not appropriate for use in engineering and design applications. Streams without flow metrics (null values) were removed from this dataset to improve display speed; to see all stream lines, use an NHD flowline dataset.
This file represents modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the percent change between the historical (1977-2006) and projected future end-of-century time period (2070–2089), based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. The flow regime is of fundamental importance in determining the physical and ecological characteristics of a river or stream, but actual flow measurements are only available for a small minority of stream segments, mostly on large rivers. Flows for all other streams must be extrapolated or modeled. Modeling is also necessary to estimate flow regimes under future climate conditions. We modeled streamflow across the contiguous United States, for the historical period (1977–2006), and two projected future time periods, mid-century (2030–2059), and end-of-century (2070–2099). These are based on gridded simulations of daily total runoff. These use RCP 8.5 projections of temperature and precipitation, downscaled to a 1/8 degree (~12 km) cell size, which are used as inputs to the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) macroscale hydrologic model. This dataset updates the previous Western U.S. Stream Flow Metric Dataset (Wenger et al., 2010) (a link to the old datasets is available on the project website: https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/modeled_stream_flow_metrics.shtml). It expands the spatial extent of this analysis, uses updated climate scenarios, and includes additional climate metrics. For each stream segment in the National Hydrography Dataset Plus Version 2 (NHDPlusV2) in the contiguous U.S. we calculated hydrographs for the three time periods. From these we calculated summary flow metrics to describe flow regimes for each stream segment and each time period and joined these to the NHD stream segments for visualization and analysis. These results allow scientists and managers to easily compare historical and projected flow patterns, including monthly, seasonal, and annual flow, flood and drought events, and timing of peak and low flows. Note: We recommend that line segments with an upstream area greater than 10,000 km2 be removed from the dataset for consideration of high flow metrics (using the field 'TotDASqKM'), since the downstream routing was simply an accumulation function. This is reasonable for larger watersheds at time scales of months and greater, but would be inaccurate for estimating floods at daily time scales on larger watersheds. Note also that the 10+ year flood models are not appropriate for use in engineering and design applications. Streams without flow metrics (null values) were removed from this dataset to improve display speed; to see all stream lines, use an NHD flowline dataset.
In 2021, the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) initiated a tracking mechanism that requires all federal agencies that own or manage land to categorize the acres of those lands into three broad categories of predominant land use and produce an annual report. In this context the USDA Forest Service has considered the definitions of each category and classified all acres of National Forest System (NFS) lands into 1. Conservation/Preservation, 2. Commercial, 3. Operational designations. Those designations are additionally separated by whether the lands have been identified as Stewardship lands, or if the lands were acquired by the federal government for General Plant, Property & Equipment purposes. In response, the Washington Office Lands and Realty Management staff determined the appropriate data sources for this annual report and developed classification rules and a geoprocessing methodology to overlay and extract a seamless and complete NFS acreage total by the required categorizations. The acres of land in each category are dynamic, as the status of surface ownership may change from year to year based on administrative and congressional designations, purchases, dispositions, or exchanges. The data used to generate the report are updated weekly, and this translates into continuously refreshed reporting and mapping products. Presented here is the spatial representation of the rule-based land category designations of NFS lands.
The FASAB land categories are defined as follows:
Conservation/ Preservation: land or land rights that are predominantly used for conservation or preservation purposes.
Conservation: protection and proper use of natural resources.
Preservation: the protection of buildings, objects, and landscapes.
Commercial: land and permanent land rights that are predominately used to generate inflows of resources derived from the land itself or activities that nonfederal third parties perform on the land, usually through special use permits, right-of-way grants, and leases.
Operational: land that is used for general or administrative purposes.
The Land_FASAB dataset covers National Forest System Lands including federally owned units of forest, range, and related land consisting of national forests, purchase units, national grasslands, land utilization project areas, experimental forest areas, experimental range areas, designated experimental areas, other land areas, water areas, and interests in lands that are administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service or designated for administration through the Forest Service. 
Additional information on this FASAB and the geoprocessing used to produce this dataset can be found here: https://www.fs.usda.gov/sites/default/files/Land-FASAB-dataset-FAQ.pdf
The Monitoring Trends in Burn Severity (MTBS) Program assesses the frequency, extent, and magnitude (size and severity) of all large wildland fires (including wildfires and prescribed fires) in the conterminous United States (CONUS), Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico from the beginning of the Landsat Thematic Mapper archive to the present. All fires reported as greater than 1,000 acres in the western U.S. and greater than 500 acres in the eastern U.S. are mapped across all ownerships. MTBS produces a series of geospatial and tabular data for analysis at a range of spatial, temporal, and thematic scales and are intended to meet a variety of information needs that require consistent data about fire effects through space and time. This map layer is a vector polygon shapefile of the location of all currently inventoried fires occurring between calendar year 1984 and the current MTBS release for CONUS, Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico. Please visit https://mtbs.gov/announcements to determine the current release. Fires omitted from this mapped inventory are those where suitable satellite imagery was not available or fires were not discernable from available imagery.
The Monitoring Trends in Burn Severity (MTBS) Program assesses the frequency, extent, and magnitude (size and severity) of all large wildland fires (including wildfires and prescribed fires) in the conterminous United States (CONUS), Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico from the beginning of the Landsat Thematic Mapper archive to the present. All fires reported as greater than 1,000 acres in the western U.S. and greater than 500 acres in the eastern U.S. are mapped across all ownerships. MTBS produces a series of geospatial and tabular data for analysis at a range of spatial, temporal, and thematic scales and are intended to meet a variety of information needs that require consistent data about fire effects through space and time. This map layer is a vector point shapefile of the location of all currently inventoried fires occurring between calendar year 1984 and the current MTBS release for CONUS, Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico. Please visit https://mtbs.gov/announcements to determine the current release. Fires omitted from this mapped inventory are those where suitable satellite imagery was not available or fires were not discernable from available imagery.
Actv_ProjectArea_NEPA represents an area (polygon) within which one or more activities related to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) are aggregated or organized. The data comes from the Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS), which is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service.
The FirePerimeterFinal polygon layer represents final mapped wildland fire perimeters. This feature class is a subset of the FirePerimeters feature class. Incidents of 10 acres or greater in size are expected. Incidents smaller than 10 acres in size may also be included. Data are maintained at the Forest/District level, or their equivalent, to track the area affected by wildland fire. Records in FirePerimeter include perimeters for wildland fires that have corresponding records in FIRESTAT, which is the authoritative data source for all wildland fire reports. FIRESTAT, the Fire Statistics System computer application, required by the USFS for all wildland fire occurrences on National Forest System Lands or National Forest-protected lands, is used to enter and maintain information from the Individual Fire Report (FS-5100-29).
The FireOccurrence point layer represents ignition points, or points of origin, from which individual USFS wildland fires started. Data are maintained at the Forest/District level, or their equivalent, to track the occurrence and the origin of individual USFS wildland fires. Forests are working to include historical data, which may be incomplete.
The FirePerimeter polygon layer represents daily and final mapped wildland fire perimeters. Incidents of 10 acres or greater in size are expected. Incidents smaller than 10 acres in size may also be included. Data are maintained at the Forest/District level, or their equivalent, to track the area affected by wildland fire. Records in FirePerimeter include perimeters for wildland fires that have corresponding records in FIRESTAT, which is the authoritative data source for all wildland fire reports. FIRESTAT, the Fire Statistics System computer application, required by the USFS for all wildland fire occurrences on National Forest System Lands or National Forest-protected lands, is used to enter and maintain information from the Individual Fire Report (FS-5100-29).
This layer indicates the location of the observed stream temperature records used for the NorWeST database summaries. NorWeST summer stream temperature scenarios were developed for all rivers and streams in the western U.S. from the > 20,000 stream sites in the NorWeST database where mean August stream temperatures were recorded. The resulting dataset includes stream lines (NorWeST_PredictedStreams) and associated mid-points NorWest_TemperaturePoints) representing 1 kilometer intervals along the stream network. Stream lines were derived from the 1:100,000 scale NHDPlus dataset (USEPA and USGS 2010; McKay et al. 2012). Shapefile extents correspond to NorWeST processing units, which generally relate to 6 digit (3rd code) hydrologic unit codes (HUCs) or in some instances closely correspond to state borders. The line and point shapefiles contain identical modeled stream temperature results. The two feature classes are meant to complement one another for use in different applications. In addition, spatial and temporal covariates used to generate the modeled temperatures are included in the attribute tables at https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/NorWeST/ModeledStreamTemperatureScenarioMaps.shtml. The NorWeST NHDPlusV1 processing units include: Salmon, Clearwater, Spokoot, Missouri Headwaters, Snake-Bear, MidSnake, MidColumbia, Oregon Coast, South-Central Oregon, Upper Columbia-Yakima, Washington Coast, Upper Yellowstone-Bighorn, Upper Missouri-Marias, and Upper Green-North Platte. The NorWeST NHDPlusV2 processing units include: Lahontan Basin, Northern California-Coastal Klamath, Utah, Coastal California, Central California, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, and Black Hills.
This layer represents modeled stream temperatures derived from the NorWeST point feature class (NorWest_TemperaturePoints). NorWeST summer stream temperature scenarios were developed for all rivers and streams in the western U.S. from the > 20,000 stream sites in the NorWeST database where mean August stream temperatures were recorded. The resulting dataset includes stream lines (NorWeST_PredictedStreams) and associated mid-points NorWest_TemperaturePoints) representing 1 kilometer intervals along the stream network. Stream lines were derived from the 1:100,000 scale NHDPlus dataset (USEPA and USGS 2010; McKay et al. 2012). Shapefile extents correspond to NorWeST processing units, which generally relate to 6 digit (3rd code) hydrologic unit codes (HUCs) or in some instances closely correspond to state borders. The line and point shapefiles contain identical modeled stream temperature results. The two feature classes are meant to complement one another for use in different applications. In addition, spatial and temporal covariates used to generate the modeled temperatures are included in the attribute tables at https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/boise/AWAE/projects/NorWeST/ModeledStreamTemperatureScenarioMaps.shtml. The NorWeST NHDPlusV1 processing units include: Salmon, Clearwater, Spokoot, Missouri Headwaters, Snake-Bear, MidSnake, MidColumbia, Oregon Coast, South-Central Oregon, Upper Columbia-Yakima, Washington Coast, Upper Yellowstone-Bighorn, Upper Missouri-Marias, and Upper Green-North Platte. The NorWeST NHDPlusV2 processing units include: Lahontan Basin, Northern California-Coastal Klamath, Utah, Coastal California, Central California, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, and Black Hills.
This data is intended for read-only use. Payments In Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and All Service Receipts (ASR) are combined into a base layer that is used in Forest Service business functions, as well as by other entities such as states and counties. This layer depicts Forest Service lands that qualify for PILT and/or ASR. Payments in Lieu of Taxes are Federal payments to local governments that help offset losses in property taxes due to the existence of nontaxbable Federal lands within their boundaries. All Service Receipts data provides acreage inputs to the FS All Service Receipts program that tracks receipt data by unit and computes revenue sharing payments to states and counties. Please note, the publication of this dataset in EDW replaces the file geodatabase on the Public Lands and Realty Management website.
The USDA Forest Service Rapid Assessment of Vegetation Condition after Wildfire (RAVG) program produces geospatial and related data representing post-fire vegetation condition by means of standardized change detection methods based on Landsat or similar multispectral satellite imagery. RAVG data products characterize the impact of disturbance (fire) on vegetation within a fire perimeter, and include estimates of percent change in live basal area (BA), percent change in canopy cover (CC), and the standardized composite burn index (CBI). Standard thematic products include 7-class percent change in basal area (BA-7), 5-class percent change in canopy cover (CC-5), and 4-class CBI (CBI-4). Contingent upon the availability of suitable imagery, RAVG products are prepared for all wildland fires reported within the conterminous United States (CONUS) that include at least 1000 acres of forested National Forest System (NFS) land (500 acres for Regions 8 and 9 as of 2016). Data for individual fires are typically made available within 45 days after fire containment ("initial assessments"). Late-season fires, however, may be deferred until the following spring or summer ("extended assessments"). Annual national mosaics of each thematic product are prepared at the end of the fire season and updated, as needed, when additional fires from the given year are processed. The annual mosaics are available via the Raster Data Warehouse (RDW, see https://apps.fs.usda.gov/arcx/rest/services/RDW_Wildfire). A combined perimeter dataset, including the burn boundaries for all published Forest Service RAVG fires from 2012 to the present, is likewise updated as needed (at least annually).
The USDA Forest Service Rapid Assessment of Vegetation Condition after Wildfire (RAVG) program produces geospatial and related data representing post-fire vegetation condition by means of standardized change detection methods based on Landsat or similar multispectral satellite imagery. RAVG data products characterize the impact of disturbance (fire) on vegetation within a fire perimeter, and include estimates of percent change in live basal area (BA), percent change in canopy cover (CC), and the standardized composite burn index (CBI). Standard thematic products include 7-class percent change in basal area (BA-7), 5-class percent change in canopy cover (CC-5), and 4-class CBI (CBI-4). Contingent upon the availability of suitable imagery, RAVG products are prepared for all wildland fires reported within the conterminous United States (CONUS) that include at least 1000 acres of forested National Forest System (NFS) land (500 acres for Regions 8 and 9 as of 2016). Data for individual fires are typically made available within 45 days after fire containment ("initial assessments"). Late-season fires, however, may be deferred until the following spring or summer ("extended assessments"). Annual national mosaics of each thematic product are prepared at the end of the fire season and updated, as needed, when additional fires from the given year are processed. The annual mosaics are available via the Raster Data Warehouse (RDW, see https://apps.fs.usda.gov/arcx/rest/services/RDW_Wildfire). A combined perimeter dataset, including the burn boundaries for all published Forest Service RAVG fires from 2012 to the present, is likewise updated as needed (at least annually). This current dataset is derived from the combined perimeter dataset and adds spatial information about land ownership (National Forest) and wilderness status, as well as the areal extent of forested land (pre-fire) that experience a modeled BA loss above 50 and 75 percent.
These data are a polygon feature class that represents the administrative boundaries of the US Forest Service Research and Development Stations. These territories consist of a collection of states' geographic areas, within which all research and development facilities and lands are managed by a station headquarters.
ResearchStationBoundaries_Gen is a generalized spatial representation of the administrative boundaries of the US Forest Service Research and Development Stations. These territories consist of a collection of states' geographic areas, within which all research and development facilities and lands are managed by a station headquarters. To display more detailed administrative boundaries for larger scale reference and analysis, the non-generalized ResearchStationBoundaries feature class should be used.
These data are a point feature class that provides the location of Research and Development's offices across the United States.
Actv_ProjectArea_SAIPlan represents an area (polygon) within which one or more Sale Area Improvement (SAI) related activities are aggregated or organized. The data comes from the Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS), which is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service.
This data publication contains a spatial database of wildfires that occurred in the United States from 1992 to 2020. It is the fifth update of a publication originally generated to support the national Fire Program Analysis (FPA) system. The wildfire records were acquired from the reporting systems of federal, state, and local fire organizations. The following core data elements were required for records to be included in this data publication: discovery date, final fire size, and a point location at least as precise as a Public Land Survey System (PLSS) section (1-square mile grid). The data were transformed to conform, when possible, to the data standards of the National Wildfire Coordinating Group (NWCG), including an updated wildfire-cause standard (approved August 2020). Basic error-checking was performed and redundant records were identified and removed, to the degree possible. The resulting product, referred to as the Fire Program Analysis fire-occurrence database (FPA FOD), includes 2.3 million geo-referenced wildfire records, representing a total of 180 million acres burned during the 29-year period. Identifiers necessary to link the point-based, final-fire-reporting information to published large-fire-perimeter and operational-situation-reporting datasets are included.
The Forests to Faucets dataset provides a watershed index of surface drinking water importance, a watershed index of forest importance to surface drinking water, and a watershed index to highlight the extent to which development, fire, and insects and disease threaten forests important for surface drinking water. The Forests to Faucets layer does not cover Alaska, Hawaii, or US Territories. This dataset was created using the 2001 National Landcover Dataset and 2005 housing development estimates. For updated forest and development statistics, please refer to the 2015 Forests on the Edge dataset.
These data have been depreciated and an updated dataset is available titled Forests to Faucets 2.0 (2022).  More information about Forests to Faucets 2.0 can be found at: https://www.fs.usda.gov/ecosystemservices/FS_Efforts/forests2faucets.shtml
The Forests on the Edge feature class is based on the digital hydrologic unit boundary layer to the Subwatershed (12-digit) 6th level for the continental United States. This 2015 data set is an updated version of the 2011 Forests to Faucets data set. America’s private forests provide a vast array of public goods and services, including abundant, clean surface water. Forest loss and development can affect water quality and quantity when forests are removed and impervious surfaces, such as paved roads, spread across the landscape. In this study rank watersheds across the conterminous United States were ranked according to the contributions of private forest land to surface drinking water and by threats to surface water from increased housing density. Private forest land contributions to drinking water are greatest in the East but are also important in Western watersheds. Development pressures on these contributions are concentrated in the Eastern United States but are also found in the North-Central region, parts of the West and Southwest, and the Pacific Northwest; nationwide, more than 55 million acres of rural private forest land are projected to experience a substantial increase in housing density from 2000 to 2030. Planners, communities, and private landowners can use a range of strategies to maintain freshwater ecosystems, including designing housing and roads to minimize impacts on water quality, managing home sites to protect water resources, and using payment schemes and management partnerships to invest in forest stewardship on public and private lands.
Actv_ProjectArea_TimberSale represents an area (polygon) within which one or more Timber Sale related activities are aggregated or organized. The data comes from the Forest Service's Natural Resource Manager (NRM) Forest Activity Tracking System (FACTS), which is the agency standard for managing information about activities related to fire/fuels, silviculture, and invasive species. FACTS is an activity tracking application for all levels of the Forest Service.
This is a once-over landslide inventory of the Tongass National Forest. This inventory includes all mass wasting features--including talus slopes, snow avalanche fields, and snow avalanche chutes. Each of these are coded differently in the attributes. It may be necssary to exclude several polygons in this data set when using it to determine landslide rates. Most of these landslide polygons were digitized on the 1998 to 2010 ortho photos in GIS. Many of them were age bracketed using air photos back to the 1929 Navy Trimegon photos. It includes both field and photo interpreted landslides. All of the landslides included once-over completed in FY2024 were age bracketed. There is an associated Points feature class that are the landslide initiation zone approximations. These points only exist for true landslides--debris avalanches, debris torrents, combination debris avalanches/torrents, slumps, rotation failures, and rock fall-initiated failures.
This is the point feature class for theonce-over landslide inventory of the Tongass National Forest. Most of the landslide polygons were digitized on the 1998 to 2010 ortho photos in GIS. Many of them were age bracketed using air photos back to the 1929 Navy Trimegon photos. It includes both field and photo interpreted landslides. This is only the point layer with initiation points for debris avalanches, debris torrents, combination debris avalances-debris torrents, slumps, rock fall initiated failures, and rotational failures.
Sixty-seven maps from "Indian Land Cessions in the United States," compiled by Charles C. Royce and published as the second part of the two-part Eighteenth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1896-1897 have been scanned, georeferenced in JPEG2000 format, and digitized to create this feature class of cession maps. The mapped cessions and reservations included in the 67 maps correspond to entries in Royce's Schedule of Indian Land Cessions (Schedule), "indicating the number and location of each cession by or reservation for the Indian tribes from the organization of the Federal Government to and including 1894, together with descriptions of the tracts so ceded or reserved, the date of the treaty, law or executive order governing the same, the name of the tribe or tribes affected thereby, and historical data and references bearing thereon," as set forth in the subtitle of the Schedule.
This is a table used for joining additional attributes to the feature class called TribalCededLands, which is the result of scanning, georeferencing and digitizing sixty-seven maps from "Indian Land Cessions in the United States," compiled by Charles C. Royce and published as the second part of the two-part Eighteenth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1896-1897. The mapped cessions and reservations included in the 67 maps correspond to entries in Royce's Schedule of Indian Land Cessions (Schedule), "indicating the number and location of each cession by or reservation for the Indian tribes from the organization of the Federal Government to and including 1894, together with descriptions of the tracts so ceded or reserved, the date of the treaty, law or executive order governing the same, the name of the tribe or tribes affected thereby, and historical data and references bearing thereon," as set forth in the subtitle of the Schedule.
The SilvReforestation feature class represents activities associated with the following performance measure: Forest Vegetation Establishment (Planting, Seeding, Site Preparation for Natural Regeneration and Certification of Natural Regeneration without Site Preparation). The Activities data set portrays the areas where activities are accomplished as a part of the silviculture program of work, funded through the budget allocation process and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database within the Natural Resource Manager (NRM) suite of applications. The activities are part of the Performance Measures used to rate Agency performance in meeting the Department's Strategic Goals. It is important to note that this layer may not contain all accomplished activities; the spatial portion of the activity description is not currently enforced by FACTS and at this time some are optionally reported by Forest Service units. As spatial data reporting is enforced by the application and acceptance of reporting increases for both tabular and spatial we hope to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of the data used for this layer in coming years.
The SilvTSI (Silviculture Timber Stand Improvement) feature class represents activities associated with the following performance measure: Forest Vegetation Improved (Release, Weeding, and Cleaning, Precommercial Thinning, Pruning and Fertilization). The Activities data set portrays the areas where activities are accomplished as a part of the silviculture program of work, funded through the budget allocation process and reported through the Forest Service Activity Tracking System (FACTS) database within the Natural Resource Manager (NRM) suite of applications. The activities are part of the Performance Measures used to rate Agency performance in meeting the Department's Strategic Goals. It is important to note that this layer may not contain all accomplished activities; the spatial portion of the activity description is not currently enforced by FACTS and at this time some are optionally reported by Forest Service units. As spatial data reporting is enforced by the application and acceptance of reporting increases for both tabular and spatial we hope to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of the data used for this layer in coming years.
The Watershed Condition Classification feature class represents data on Watershed Condition on Forest Service lands in HUC12 (from the Watershed Boundary Dataset) watersheds that contain more than 5% USFS ownership. The feature class also includes data on high priority watersheds identified in the Watershed Condition Framework (WCF) process. The WCF data identifies priority watersheds, rationale for their designation as such, and information on Watershed Restoration Action Plans. The data are compiled from the Watershed Condition Assessment and Tracking Tool (WCATT) application within the NRM (National Resource Manager: a suite of applications, each of which collects, stores and reports data for various Forest Service business areas).
